docs/internals.md, before:

# OpenKit - Internals

## Data Sending (Beacon Sending)

All data sending, including synchronization with the backend (Dynatrace SaaS/Dynatrace Managed/AppMon)
happens asynchronously by starting an own thread when OpenKit is initialized.  

Beacon sending in OpenKit is implemented using a state pattern. The following 
diagram illustrates the states.

![diagram](./pics/OpenKit-state_diagram.svg)

### Initialize

The Init state (class `communication::BeaconSendingInitialState`) sends the initial status request to the server.
The request is retried several times (by default 5 retries, in total 6 requests) with increasing
delays between consecutive retries.  
If the server returned a status response a state transition to TimeSync is performed, otherwise
OpenKit stays in the Initialize state, but sleeps some time until the next status request is sent. 
 
If `OpenKit::shutdown()` is called while OpenKit is in the Init state, 
a transition to the Terminal state is performed.

### TimeSync

In the TimeSync state (class `communication::BeaconSendingTimeSyncState`) 5 time sync timestamp pairs, in total
10 timestamps, are fetched. The timestamps are used to calculate the time offset to the backend. 
To retrieve a pair of timestamps one time sync request is sent with a maximum amount of retries 
(by default 5 retries, therefore in total 6 requests for one timestamp pair).  
If a server does not support time sync (e.g. AppMon) all further retries are skipped and no 
further time sync will happen.  In this case a transition to either CaptureOn state or CaptureOff 
state is performed, based on the initial configuration obtained in Init state.
If the number of time sync retries is exceeded the time sync is unsuccessful and therefore a
transition to CaptureOff is performed.
 
The algorithm used to compute the cluster time offset is similar to the algorithm used by 
[NTP](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Network_Time_Protocol#Clock_synchronization_algorithm).

If `OpenKit::shutdown()` is called while OpenKit is in the TimeSync state, a transition to either 
Terminal state or FlushSession state is performed. The transition to the Terminal state 
is only performed if the initial time sync was not completed before the call to `shutdown()`.

### CaptureOff

In the CaptureOff state (class `communication::BeaconSendingCaptureOffState`) OpenKit checks when the last
status request was sent to the server and sleeps some time before performing the next status
request.  
If time sync is supported by the server and the initial time sync failed a state transition
to time sync is performed.  
If the initial time sync was successfully performed, a transition to CaptureOn state is performed
if capturing was enabled by the server's status response. If capturing is disabled
then no transition is performed and the state machine stays in CaptureOff state.  

If OpenKit is shut down during CaptureOff state a transition to FlushSessions is performed.

### CaptureOn

In the CaptureOn state (class `communication::BeaconSendingCaptureOnState`) OpenKit checks in regular intervals
(the default value is 1 second) if it should send open sessions. The interval for sending
open sessions is configured in the status response.  
Furthermore all previously finished sessions are also sent to the server.  

Data sending is retried three times to avoid data loss with increasing delays between consecutive
retries.

If OpenKit is shut down during CaptureOn state a transition to FlushSessions is performed.

### FlushSessions

The FlushSessions state (class `BeaconSendingFlushSessionsState`) is used to send all
data which has not been transferred so far to the server.

### Terminal

The Terminal state (class `BeaconSendingTerminalState`) is the last state in OpenKit's internal 
state machine. After this state is reached the background thread responsible for sending data 
is terminated gracefully.

## Data Capturing (BeaconCache)

To be able to capture events while OpenKit is still initializing, all reported events are stored
in a cache, the so called BeaconCache.

An illustration how this cache looks like can be found below, followed by a detailed explanation.

![diagram](./pics/OpenKit-BeaconCache.svg)

### Basic BeaconCache Layout

The BeaconCache is a 2-dimensional cache, storing data for each Session, internally also referred to
as Beacon. Each OpenKit instance has such a cache, so if your application starts multiple OpenKit instances
in parallel, keep in mind that each OpenKit instance consumes cache memory.  

The example image shows three Sessions started from one OpenKit instance and for each Session a different number of Event Data
and Action Data.

### BeaconCache Records

A record is a single captured event, like an Action, a Web Request or anything else captured with
OpenKit. A record is already serialized data which can be sent to the backend system.

### BeaconCache Eviction

By default the BeaconCache has two eviction strategies, which are triggered whenever new data
is inserted. Triggering such a strategy does not necessarily mean that records are evicted from the cache, but rather
the strategy evaluates whether it makes sense to run or not.

The eviction strategies run in a separate background thread, which is started when OpenKit is started and
shut down when OpenKit is terminated.

#### Time Based Eviction

Since Dynatrace/AppMon backend services does not process too old data, it make sense to not send such data to the
backend system.
By default records that are older than 1 hour and 45 minutes are evicted, but when initializing an
OpenKit instance via the builder the value can be set by calling `withBeaconCacheMaxRecordAge` with an argument specifying the
maximum record age in milliseconds.

It is possible to disable this strategy by setting the argument to `withBeaconCacheMaxRecordAge` to a value less than
or equal to 0.

#### Size based Eviction

The second eviction strategy is used to limit the memory consumption of OpenKit.
This strategy evicts beacons if the memory usage of the BeaconCache exceeds a configured upper bound and stops
as soon as the memory consumed by the cache reaches a configured lower bound.
By default, the upper boundary is set to 100 megabytes and the lower boundary is 80 megabytes.
The defaults can be changed when initializing the OpenKit instance via the builder by calling `withBeaconCacheLowerMemoryBoundary`
and `withBeaconCacheUpperMemoryBoundary`.

When the upper boundary is set to a value less than or equal to the lower boundary, this strategy is disabled.

### BeaconCache and Threading

The cache itself is implemented in a thread safe manner. It is limiting the time when shared resources are locked to a 
bare minimum. Furthermore the cache makes also use of Read-Write-Locks to ensure maximum parallelism when different
Sessions (Beacons) are accessed.

Commit message:

Remove time sync related code

docs/internals.md, after:

# OpenKit - Internals

## Data Sending (Beacon Sending)

All data sending, including synchronization with the backend (Dynatrace SaaS/Dynatrace Managed/AppMon)
happens asynchronously by starting an own thread when OpenKit is initialized.  

Beacon sending in OpenKit is implemented using a state pattern. The following 
diagram illustrates the states.

![diagram](./pics/OpenKit-state_diagram.svg)

### Initialize

The Init state (class `BeaconSendingInitState`) sends the initial status request to the server.
The request is retried several times (by default 5 retries, in total 6 requests) with increasing
delays between consecutive retries.  
If the server returned a successful status response a state transition to either CaptureOn or CaptureOff
is performed, depending on whether capturing is enabled or disabled in the initial status response.
If the status request fails OpenKit stays in the Initialize state and sleeps some time
until the next status request is sent. 
 
If `OpenKit.shutdown()` is called while OpenKit is in the Init state, 
a transition to the Terminal state is performed.

### CaptureOff

In the CaptureOff state (class `BeaconSendingCaptureOffState`) OpenKit checks when the last
status request was sent to the server and sleeps some time before performing the next status
request.  
A transition to CaptureOn state is performed if capturing was re-enabled by the server's status response.
If capturing is disabled no transition is performed and the state machine stays in CaptureOff state.  

If OpenKit is shut down during CaptureOff state a transition to FlushSessions is performed.

### CaptureOn

In the CaptureOn state (class `BeaconSendingCaptureOnState`) OpenKit checks in regular intervals
(the default value is 1 second) if it should send open sessions. The interval for sending
open sessions is configured in the status response.  
Furthermore all previously finished sessions are also sent to the server.  

Data sending is retried three times to avoid data loss with increasing delays between consecutive
retries.

If OpenKit is shut down during CaptureOn state a transition to FlushSessions is performed.

### FlushSessions

The FlushSessions state (class `BeaconSendingFlushSessionsState`) is used to send all
data which has not been transferred so far to the server.

### Terminal

The Terminal state (class `BeaconSendingTerminalState`) is the last state in OpenKit's internal 
state machine. After this state is reached the background thread responsible for sending data 
is terminated gracefully.

## Data Capturing (BeaconCache)

To be able to capture events while OpenKit is still initializing, all reported events are stored
in a cache, the so called BeaconCache.

An illustration how this cache looks like can be found below, followed by a detailed explanation.

![diagram](./pics/OpenKit-BeaconCache.svg)

### Basic BeaconCache Layout

The BeaconCache is a 2-dimensional cache, storing data for each Session, internally also referred to
as Beacon. Each OpenKit instance has such a cache, so if your application starts multiple OpenKit instances
in parallel, keep in mind that each OpenKit instance consumes cache memory.  

The example image shows three Sessions started from one OpenKit instance and for each Session a different number of Event Data
and Action Data.

### BeaconCache Records

A record is a single captured event, like an Action, a Web Request or anything else captured with
OpenKit. A record is already serialized data which can be sent to the backend system.

### BeaconCache Eviction

By default the BeaconCache has two eviction strategies, which are triggered whenever new data
is inserted. Triggering such a strategy does not necessarily mean that records are evicted from the cache, but rather
the strategy evaluates whether it makes sense to run or not.

The eviction strategies run in a separate background thread, which is started when OpenKit is started and
shut down when OpenKit is terminated.

#### Time Based Eviction

Since Dynatrace/AppMon backend services does not process too old data, it make sense to not send such data to the
backend system.
By default records that are older than 1 hour and 45 minutes are evicted, but when initializing an
OpenKit instance via the builder the value can be set by calling `withBeaconCacheMaxRecordAge` with an argument specifying the
maximum record age in milliseconds.

It is possible to disable this strategy by setting the argument to `withBeaconCacheMaxRecordAge` to a value less than
or equal to 0.

#### Size based Eviction

The second eviction strategy is used to limit the memory consumption of OpenKit.
This strategy evicts beacons if the memory usage of the BeaconCache exceeds a configured upper bound and stops
as soon as the memory consumed by the cache reaches a configured lower bound.
By default, the upper boundary is set to 100 megabytes and the lower boundary is 80 megabytes.
The defaults can be changed when initializing the OpenKit instance via the builder by calling `withBeaconCacheLowerMemoryBoundary`
and `withBeaconCacheUpperMemoryBoundary`.

When the upper boundary is set to a value less than or equal to the lower boundary, this strategy is disabled.

### BeaconCache and Threading

The cache itself is implemented in a thread safe manner. It is limiting the time when shared resources are locked to a 
bare minimum. Furthermore the cache makes also use of Read-Write-Locks to ensure maximum parallelism when different
Sessions (Beacons) are accessed.
